[AUDIO LOGO]
[THEME MUSIC]
>> REGINA MEREDITH: Cate Montana
is a woman after my own heart.
Why?
Because she believes
humanity is essentially good,
that we know how to love.
But there are
ancient forces that
have attempted to separate
us from our true essence.
We're going to be talking about
that and recovering our true
nature in her book,
"Cracking the Matrix."
So good to see you again, Cate.
>> CATE MONTANA: It's
so good to be back.
>> REGINA: You were supposed
to be here a while back,
except you got COVID, you
couldn't get on the plane.
But here we are.
>> MONTANA: And then I
got sick a few days ago.
There has been a lot
of pushback from,
shall we say, interdimensional
influences that doesn't want me
here and have this conversation
>> REGINA: They don't want you
to talk about how good we are.
>> MONTANA: No, no.
>> REGINA: No.
Oh my gosh, OK, so you're--
I've interviewed you before.
So people can go
into the archive
and see our original interview.
But you've had kind
of-- you've had
a really wonderful,
wild kind of life
because you just go,
do what you want to do.
Then you just go out of control.
Then you go back to yourself
and the great creator,
and then you're back on the
road again with something else.
And so you've been like
this your whole life, which
has given you a lot of exposure
to the nature of humanity.
>> MONTANA: Yeah,
a lot of context.
>> REGINA: A lot of context.
So let's go back to your
youth and things that
started with your grandmother
when you were around 7 years
old even.
We're just going to
dive in because we
have a lot to chat about.
>> MONTANA: Sure.
Well, we've already talked
about how unconscious I was.
I just bought the program.
>> REGINA: Like everybody.
>> MONTANA: Like everybody.
And I believed what
the church said.
I believed what my parents said.
I believed what school said.
And so here's life, five
senses and that's all there is.
And believe what everybody says.
And so I was completely unaware
of all these other influences
that were guiding
my family, that
were infiltrating my family,
that were infiltrating me,
negative forces.
My grandmother had
Parkinson's disease.
She was a very selfish woman.
And she slowly just became like
a frozen statue of salt. I mean,
she couldn't talk,
she couldn't walk.
But I would see things
behind her eyes.
There was something
there that I recognized
as a very young child,
that as I grew older,
it was just like, well,
that's just grandma
and that's how she is.
And I stopped seeing what
was behind the eyes, what
was behind the visage.
And so it wasn't until I started
writing Cracking the Matrix,
when COVID hit and I got out of
my spirituality bubble and went,
wait a minute, 30,000 hours of
meditation and all this inner
work, and look at the
world is going to hell.
What is happening?
I'm missing something.
And that was when I
stopped and I went,
OK, I've got to include the
whole picture of life, not just
the light side.
I need the full spectrum
of what's going on.
And when I started asking full
spectrum information, please,
that's when people,
situations and memories
started coming forward
of that I had already met
these interdimensional beings.
I had already seen them.
I saw them behind my
grandmother's eyes.
I saw them in the pain of
my grandfather, in his tears
at night.
I saw what was driving the
numbness and the alcoholism
in my family.
Kids are smart.
You said it earlier.
>> REGINA: Kids are smart.
>> MONTANA: Five years old, you
know what the heck is going on.
>> REGINA: Yeah, it's funny.
I've got a super
open mind, but when
I hear something that's BS, even
when I was a little tiny one,
it's like, that
doesn't work for me.
I'm done.
I'm out of here.
But at each point in
someone's-- each of our lives,
there has to come that
moment where we say, no,
I don't buy it.
So anyway, your family was just
drowning in all this sorrow
and numbing it with alcohol.
You had your own little
play with alcohol yourself.
>> MONTANA: Absolutely.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
So let's talk about that.
>> MONTANA: It was all part
of the program to keep me numb
and on track, whatever that--
>> REGINA: On track.
>> MONTANA: On track, the
social, get a good education,
start a career, marry right,
get a 401(k), buy a dog,
buy a house, get a
mortgage, take the pills.
>> REGINA: I say throw
those magazines out.
>> MONTANA: So I was
on the success parade.
And until I hit 30 and I had
a great career in television,
I had the house, I had the
mortgage, I had the dog,
I had the foreign
cars, the husband.
And none of it was
making me happy.
And I was like, well,
I've done everything
that society told me
to do to be happy.
I'm not happy.
Well, what is left?
>> REGINA: And I think everybody
listening to this can relate
to that.
They've been there at one
point, or if they're not
there right now.
>> MONTANA: Yeah.
So the only other
path was inward.
So then there's
another 35, 40 years
of spiritual indoctrination,
spiritual programming.
>> REGINA: Let's
talk about that.
You had a romp with
Ramtha, JZ Knight.
>> MONTANA: Oh, god.
Yes, I did.
I did.
That was a channeled teaching
back in the '80s when everybody
was channeling.
>> REGINA: Everyone
That's when all the channels
that you hear about today
really started first popping up.
>> MONTANA: Yeah.
>> REGINA: But at the same time,
you also went into seclusion
after your television career.
We talked about this
in the last interview.
You went to a little cabin,
and you sat with yourself
to feel yourself
for a few years.
What happened during that time?
Because people dream of having
a getaway from life like that.
What happened?
>> MONTANA: Yeah.
That was the 30
kind of break point,
Saturn return, oh, my
God, it's not working.
So I turned within.
I rented a cabin
for $100 a month.
>> REGINA: What did you do with
the husband and everything?
>> MONTANA: I divorced.
>> REGINA: OK.
>> MONTANA: I left television,
and I took my dogs and my cat
and my horse and went
and lived in the woods.
And I had no teachers, no guide.
I didn't even know
the word astral.
I could spell "spiritual,"
but that's about it.
But I just asked the
question, who am I?
That just seemed
to me the question.
And I would meditate probably
six, seven hours a day,
in the morning
and then at night.
And-- [CHUCKLES]
>> REGINA: Did you get
any answers, by the way?
>> MONTANA: Oh god.
Well, it was a--
well, I got a really good look
at how my mind functioned.
And it was like, oh my
God, what an unholy mess.
[LAUGHTER]
It was a disaster.
I mean, my head was
a disaster place.
But after about six months
of continued effort,
I started to-- yeah, I had a
moment where I fell into bliss.
It was just one of those
holistic, whole moments
where everything made sense.
I knew who I was
but not in a linear,
oh, I'm Cate Montana,
none of that.
All that went away, and there
was just this quiet certitude.
And that was when I knew I was
on the right path, that that was
a moment of connection
to my true being
that I probably
hadn't experienced
since I was an infant.
That made me know I
was on the right path.
So it was after that--
>> REGINA: How did you leap
over to Ramtha and all?
>> MONTANA: How was--
>> REGINA: No,
that was JZ Knight,
big channeler in the '80s.
>> MONTANA: OK, OK.
So the next thing that
happened in this meditation
is that I started having
out-of-body experiences.
I obviously opened up
my Kundalini energy,
and I started actually having--
I started having
astral experiences.
I started having attacks from
interdimensional beings that I
didn't know were
interdimensional beings.
I literally could feel hands on
my body pulling my spirit out
of my body at night,
and I was thrown
into astral hell realms that
were just, well, terrifying.
Every horror movie,
every "Exorcist"
movie you've ever seen,
that was the vibe.
It was awful.
I was terrified.
And I had no context, Regina.
I had no teacher, no books,
couldn't spell "astral."
Right.
And so I had just completed my
master's degree in psychology.
I called my ex-advisor at
the college and I said,
I need a shrink.
>> REGINA: [CHUCKLES]
>> MONTANA: And so he sent me
some recommendations in Atlanta,
and I ended up on a
psychiatrist couch.
And--
>> REGINA: What did
they find in that head?
>> MONTANA: And so I
told him about my visions
and my out-of-body experiences,
and it was like this wonderful
hour of purging at $250
an hour back in 1986.
And I was like, well,
that's pretty good.
And he thought I
was schizophrenic.
So the diagnosis at that
point was like, boy,
are you screwed up.
And I remember at
that moment, it
was a break point because I
realized I wasn't screwed up.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
Yeah.
>> MONTANA: The outside
program was telling me.
I was sick.
I knew I was not.
And at that point, I ran
across a psychologist
who was totally tuned in.
And she went, oh, you
cracked your Kundalini.
It's unusual, but yeah,
there's an explanation
for what you're doing.
At that point, she had
a video conference.
And a whole bunch of people came
over and watched her Ramtha tape
one night, and that was
how I got to Ramtha.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
I mean, if you were alive and
you were doing the spiritual
path, the new age path in the
'80s, you usually found your way
to some channel or another.
I mean, I did.
I think most of us did if
you were in an area that
had that sort of thing.
>> MONTANA: Yeah.
>> REGINA: And so
now let's talk--
but let's go back a little bit
because this does feed into it.
You enjoyed alcohol to numb
yourself along the way.
Now, what periods of your
life were you using alcohol
to numb yourself?
Because this also creates
such an incredible porousness
in the aura that anything
can come in uninvited.
So did that just weave in
and out here and there?
Or was it--
>> MONTANA: Well, most spiritual
teachers of any credibility will
advise people against
substances, whether it's drugs,
alcohol.
And so I would quit for a few
years and then go back to it.
And so it was on again, off
again, kind of a love affair.
>> REGINA: So did it disrupt
your ability to continue this
journey of knowing thyself?
Or did you do--
were you able to work
it out even with that?
>> MONTANA: Well, I guess I
wouldn't be sitting here talking
to you if I hadn't
worked it through.
[CHUCKLING]
But in retrospect,
yeah, of course.
But I think we come to what we
can come to when we can come
to it and not a moment before.
And I have argued in my own
head against the process,
the evolutionary
journey of growth
because it should all be
aligned and instantaneous,
and I should know
it all right now.
That's the delusion.
[LAUGHTER]
>> REGINA: Yeah, exactly.
>> MONTANA: And so
one step at a time.
And it wasn't until the
whole COVID adventure
and, again, when I started
to embrace a full spectrum
view of my life, the
context of how humanity
has gotten to the pickle point.
It's at now where we're divided.
We're contentious.
We're in total conflict.
We hate ourselves.
>> REGINA: And we're
trying to numb ourselves.
>> MONTANA: And we're
numbing ourselves.
>> REGINA: One way or another.
>> MONTANA: And so it was
finally when I saw that we are
being assiduously influenced and
programmed by this presence that
is interdimensional,
invisible by its very nature.
>> REGINA: And you call it,
essentially, an anti-life force.
>> MONTANA: I do.
>> REGINA: And I've talked
with many authors and people
on the show that
speak about "it."
But some people will
say "it" is reptilians.
Other people will say
it's interdimensional.
Others will say it's
aspects of your own mind.
But for you, for all
of us, actually, I
think we all understand
there's something here
that from the hierarchical
top-down level, which is BS
anyway, is putting out
reflections of humanity that
aren't us.
>> MONTANA: Yeah.
>> REGINA: Way too much
violence, just scarcity,
lack control, competition.
That's not us.
That is not us.
And so that's your
journey, and that's
what you did in
writing this book.
So let's talk about
some of those,
where you start really seeing
these influences coming in.
>> MONTANA: It was during COVID
years when I started to reflect
and go, what's wrong
with this planet?
And why, after 30,000
hours of meditation,
am I still conflicted and
still filled with self-doubt?
Why is my only
escape with my eyes
closed sitting on
my zazen pillow?
Why is that my only free place?
>> REGINA: Right.
>> MONTANA: And so--
>> REGINA: It's a
very good question.
>> MONTANA: It is.
And--
>> REGINA: You should be
living that while you're awake.
>> MONTANA: Exactly, embodied.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> MONTANA: So that's when
I started looking at this
influence, and I traced it
back thousands of years.
There's not a culture or a
civilization on this planet,
Regina, that doesn't know about
this interdimensional negative,
entropic, anti-life influence.
The ancient Greeks
called it the-- called
these beings the Archons.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> MONTANA: Yeah.
The Native Americans call this
influence wetiko or wendigo.
I live in Hawaii, and the
kahunas refer to these beings
as the e'epa.
Carl Jung called it the
Antichrist influence
or the antimimos.
And it just blew my
mind that, wow, OK--
well, of course,
Christians call it Satan.
And it's like,
well, wait a minute.
We've known about this influence
for thousands of years.
Everybody knows about it.
The shamans that I did plant
medicine with in the Amazon
dealt with these
beings all the time.
Very, very clear that
this presence is here now.
>> REGINA: Always has been.
>> MONTANA: Always has
been, across the board,
affects everybody.
I don't care how many thousands
of hours of meditation
and how much yoga you've done.
We are all affected.
And we don't see it.
That's why we're affected.
And so the next question
became is, well, if it's here,
everybody knows about
it, and everybody's
known about it forever,
why don't we know about it?
So that was the
next question about,
how are we programmed to keep
this presence invisible so
that we don't know
what's really going on?
And we are always
blaming ourselves,
and we're taking all the
credit for all the bad stuff
and completely ignoring that
there is this constant yin, yin,
yin, yin, yin.
You know the whole little
devil on your shoulder image?
It's really true,
and we don't give it
credit, because, all
right, Christianity,
religion has made this--
>> REGINA: Born a sinner.
>> MONTANA: --born a sinner.
The whole influence
is about original sin
and that we are rotten to
the core by the very fact
that we dwell in these
beautiful bodies.
So there is this setup from
the get-go that tells us that,
this I cannot trust.
I cannot trust my own heart.
I cannot trust my own guidance.
Only God is good.
Only God is love.
And I have to strive to
gain that that's already
outside of me.
>> REGINA: That
approval and help.
>> MONTANA: That approval.
And so there's this gap.
Goodness and love is out
here, and so I'm down here
as this miserable sinner.
And there's this yin, yin,
yin, yeah you're right.
Yeah, you're a piece of poo,
blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
And we don't give it credit
because, well, look at what--
look at how religion,
Christianity, for example,
treats-- well,
Satan is ludicrous.
The bug-eyed monster with
the horns and a tail--
anybody in the 21st--
>> REGINA: --start programming
you when you're three, four,
and five, it's real.
>> MONTANA: Yeah.
Yeah.
But when you move into more
rational scientific perspective,
and people tend to go,
well, that's ridiculous.
So we marginalize it.
We sideline it.
>> REGINA: Well, what's
interesting is so then we moved,
as humanity, away from
religion and superstition,
to a large extent, into a
world of scientific materialism
and mentalism and mind and away
from the spiritual tenants,
controlling tenants
as well, right?
>> MONTANA: Exactly.
>> REGINA: So now you have--
when I was young, pretty
much everyone I knew
went to church, one
kind or another.
That's gone by the
by, to a large extent,
in the Western
industrialized world.
And with it-- I mean, on
one hand, you can say,
people were pretty good.
We didn't see-- we weren't doing
heinous things to each other.
You didn't have these same
kind of dark, obvious media
influences in those days.
It was quite the opposite.
It was very moralistic.
>> MONTANA: We had Opie.
>> REGINA: We had Opie.
We had "Father Knows Best."
It should have been mother, too.
Father and mother know best.
[CHUCKLES] We had all that.
So then something else
happened, and that's
the part we're leaning into
now, which is something now--
the influence that's coming
from this hierarchical media
structure don't
match who we are.
We're good.
They don't match the goodness
that's inside us at all.
And it seems to me this might
be one of the last big grasps
for human consciousness.
Whatever beings are
perpetuating this,
must know the game
is winding down as
these new, little,
fresh babies awaken.
They have so much knowledge.
You know what I mean?
That's not going to be--
they're not going to buy it.
So let's talk about the ways
in which it's still happening.
One of them you bring up in
your book is the Super Bowl.
>> MONTANA: Oh, dear heaven.
>> REGINA: I thought,
are you kidding me?
>> MONTANA: Really, guys and
jockstraps and demons rising out
of hell as--
>> REGINA: Zombies and jocks--
>> MONTANA: Zombies
and jockstraps.
>> REGINA: --were
over their faces.
>> MONTANA: Jockstraps
>> REGINA: Oh, come on.
How much lower can we get?
How many millions of citizens
of this planet watch that?
>> MONTANA: Sure.
And we're taught
that it's acceptable.
This is art.
>> REGINA: [CHUCKLES]
>> MONTANA: And so there's
this constant push,
this program that demeans
us that has these negative
influences that show us the
lowest common denominator
possible.
And then we're taught it's art,
and then the critics go wild.
And so we're all like,
well, OK, that must be.
So we accept it.
>> REGINA: That's a
big one right there.
Just form, color, and
what is called art.
I remember reading "Newsweek"
magazine quite a few years ago,
and I saw what looked like
a pile of poo on a canvas.
>> MONTANA: Mm-hmm.
There you go.
>> REGINA: That was at the
Tate Museum in London, right?
>> MONTANA: Yeah.
>> REGINA: And I thought, how
come I don't understand this?
>> MONTANA: A
five-year-old understands--
>> REGINA: A five-year-old.
But I've grown up a little,
and I didn't understand.
Otherwise I would have said,
well, that's poo on a canvas.
>> MONTANA: Yeah.
>> REGINA: And so that's the
stuff that's being elevated.
>> MONTANA: The message
is constant across--
when I realize that the message
from society, from religion,
and from spirituality
was all the same message,
you're not enough.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> MONTANA: You do not know.
Look for answers
outside of yourself.
You are a debased,
violent conflict, greedy--
You are a low spectrum being.
That's the constant
message across the board.
Society is like, you
have to be thinner.
You have to be richer.
You have to be prettier.
You have to be more successful.
You have to be more and more.
Religion is well, you
have to be more holy.
You have to be more pure.
You have to be more
surrendered to God.
Spirituality-- you have
to be more your higher
self, more of your Christ self.
You have to be more forgiving.
You have to be more
open-minded, more, more, more,
not, who are you?
You're a being of love.
You're a spirit being
of love already.
And it just hit me
between the eyes, Regina.
It's like, wait a minute,
the message constantly
from every direction is
you've got to be more.
You're not enough.
You're bad and wrong.
You're incomplete.
[CHUCKLES]
How can I become
what I already am?
I'm already a being
of light and love.
We all are.
How can I become that?
I already am, but
I can be sidelined.
I can be steered astray
and think I'm less
and have to become
something more.
So then I'm always seeking
answers outside of self.
I'm always seeking
love outside of self.
I'm always seeking the
light outside of self.
So to come back in and
go, oh my God, I mean,
what a journey to come back in.
I'm already here.
I already know the simplest,
most original teaching ever.
Be still.
Know you are God.
>> REGINA: So we're going to
get into some of the things that
happen once you realize,
it's all right here.
>> MONTANA: It's all
right here right now.
>> REGINA: It's
all here already.
And your body is the
most divine tuning fork.
>> MONTANA: Yes.
>> REGINA: But let's talk about
something else conceptually
first.
>> MONTANA: Yeah.
>> REGINA: OK, so there's nobody
here that's been forced to be
here.
Incarnation is not an accident.
>> MONTANA: [CHUCKLES]
>> REGINA: So we're here.
You can't stuff a-- and I
say this, and I mean it.
You can't stuff
a soul in a body.
Soul will say, no, I'm leaving.
I don't want to do this.
No.
It's easy to leave a body.
So if we've all agreed to
be here in this matrix,
after everything that you
have seen and been through
and the place you've
come to, you've
become a stronger, wiser person.
But we see incredible cruelty
in the lowest framework
of humanity--
>> MONTANA: Absolutely.
>> REGINA: --emotions.
So if this is known as the
planet of polarity of extremes,
isn't that inherently, all that
stuff's supposed to be there,
too?
It's a tough one.
>> MONTANA: That's
one interpretation.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> MONTANA: It goes back to
the whole yin-yang symbol.
We have been trained to see
it as a conflict of opposites,
Black and white, up and
down, male and female.
That's this planet.
But it's not.
It's a whole.
It's a complementary.
The yin-yang is complementary
forces that are innate
in a whole that
cannot be separated.
So the illusion and the matrix
and the message in the matrix
is that it's always
about opposites.
And so the more we're-- we're
always trained to see the other,
and we're trained to see
the other as dangerous.
And we're trained to see the
other as outside of ourselves.
In my book, "The
E-Word," it was like,
I realized as a tiny infant the
immediate nonverbal impression
24/7 from my senses is,
oh, Regina's over there.
Mommy's breast is out there.
I've got to cry the--
so we are trained from infancy
to, yes, OK, self and other.
And then--
>> REGINA: That we
are interdependent.
>> MONTANA: Yeah, but we
lose that message that
we're interdependent.
Then that message comes
in and says yeah, well,
that other is dangerous.
And you've got to manipulate
that other to get what you want,
and you've got to be supreme
over the other and be somebody.
How can I be somebody?
I already am this
beautiful being of love,
unless I get the message that
there's this carrot out here
always dangling down the road
with the rabbit chasing--
>> REGINA: Well, do you
think that it is, then,
because we all here
incarnated now,
part of our journey to have the
wisdom and discernment to say
no?
>> MONTANA: Absolutely.
>> REGINA: I mean,
it seems to me,
that's really what
this is about.
The darker it gets, the
darker the push and pull
and influences, the
more institutions
become wobbly and
start crumbling.
It's-- we're here now to say,
OK, OK, I chose to be here now.
The answer is, no.
I'm not buying your
version of reality anymore.
>> MONTANA: Exactly right.
We've got to see the whole
picture at one point.
I would love to tell a
story about original sin
because it's the
story of programming.
>> REGINA: Yes, please do.
>> MONTANA: This is how this
interdimensional force works,
and it's been working
for thousands of years.
Like this.
But this is so telling.
Because if you look in a
baby's eyes for 15 seconds,
you see nothing but pure
life, love, expansion.
Oh my god, anybody looking in
a baby's eyes for 15 seconds
knows that original sin is BS.
>> REGINA: Absolutely, yeah.
>> MONTANA: So where
did this come from?
OK, so it comes
from St. Augustine.
He introduced it at the Council
of Nicaea and wa, da, da, da,
da.
Where did St. Augustine
get this picture?
Well, it turns out
that St. Augustine
was a sexual reprobate.
His mom was Christian.
His dad was a pagan.
He was a drunk and a sex
fiend for the first 25 years--
>> REGINA: Like a lot
of our church elders.
>> MONTANA: Like a lot
And his mother despaired.
He ran across the
teachings of Mani,
the prophet of
Babylon, Manichaeism,
that taught that
the body is sinful.
The body will lead you into sin.
The body is--
>> REGINA: That's
a conflicted, man.
>> MONTANA: [CHUCKLES]
The body is corrupt.
And so the whole thing is to
get out of the body to God,
and then you can be good.
And so St. Augustine took
this teaching of Manichaeism,
was like, that's
why I'm a bad boy.
That's why I'm breaking
my mommy's heart.
[CHUCKLES] I get it.
It's my body's
fault. Sinful thing.
Uh-huh.
So that's where he got
the original sin thing.
So the question is, is where did
Mani, the prophet of Babylon--
back in 235 AD, where did Mani
get the idea about original sin?
Well, turns out that
Mani had a voice that
would speak to him,
an invisible being
that he called his other self,
that would whisper in his ear
about the corruption
of the flesh
and how nature was
not to be trusted
and how the body was to
be despised and reviled,
and how we were born into sin
by being here on planet Earth.
>> REGINA: Isn't it amazing
how many of these, quote,
"great books and great works"
were based on really corrupted
channeling?
>> MONTANA: You get this.
Well, that's exactly right.
So here we come to--
and let's vault forward another
2,000 years, and here we are.
And we're still trained
to go outside of ourselves
for answers.
The person who--
Ramtha has the answers.
Oh, please-- God
has the answers.
Please, please, God,
please tell me the answers.
So we're so vulnerable
because we're
taught that authority is outside
ourselves, because we are
corrupt and not to be trusted.
That's the whole message for
thousands of years, Regina.
>> REGINA: It is.
>> MONTANA: And we finally
bought the message.
And here's the--
[CHUCKLES] oh, god.
Here's the thing.
We're the creators.
We are these. divine,
powerful, powerful beings.
I'm getting choked up.
We're the ones that have
to create the conflict.
to lower our own light.
We're the ones that have
to diminish ourselves
because this influence
has no power.
It can't pick up a cup.
It has to convince us
to do the dirty work.
It has to convince us that we
are less, that we're divided,
that we're despicable,
that we're small.
And when we buy that, as we're
powerful, creative beings,
we make it so.
>> REGINA: We do make it so.
>> MONTANA: We make it so.
>> REGINA: And every time we
have those feelings and those
thoughts about ourselves,
that is the nature of reality.
It is those feelings
and thoughts
that are repeated
throughout the day,
every day that become
the quality of our lives.
>> MONTANA: Yeah.
>> REGINA: And we know.
We've been-- I was a New Ager.
[LAUGHTER]
We've known, oh, your mind
is-- you create your reality.
And we accept that
as a bumper sticker
until we have to do our due
diligence, which is to-- you
have a thought.
You have a feeling.
Oh, that person is--
hold on a minute.
Am I going to do that again?
Start judging them to
somehow make yourself
feel superior in some
teensy, little way
in this competitive environment
that you're talking about.
And so the due diligence to
first quiet yourself like you
did, start recognizing this body
already has everything in it,
it's--
>> MONTANA: [CHUCKLES]
>> REGINA: It's permeating.
>> MONTANA: This is life.
>> REGINA: All consciousness
is permeating this space that
you're sitting in.
>> MONTANA: It's all here--
>> REGINA: And it's
accessible right here now.
And to dare to
say, wait a minute,
to yourself, why am I having
that ugly little thought
about that person?
What do I think I'm
gaining out of that?
It's going to take
that level of maturity.
>> MONTANA: Yes.
And when I look in the
mirror, what do I see?
Oh, god.
Is this a flab?
Oh, my god, wrinkles.
Ah!
Ooh.
The horrific self-judgment
is so painful.
>> REGINA: Self-judgment, as
well as judgment of others,
they are equally devastating
to the nature of what
we're creating as our reality.
>> MONTANA: We are
so powerful, Regina,
and we don't see
what we're doing.
And every time I go outside
of myself for answers,
there's always going to be in
my next SlimFast recipe diet
program, or it's going to
be in my next yoga program.
Or the answer is going to be
coming in the next book I read.
And so again, the program
is to always keep us
outside of ourselves and
in a lack of self-trust.
>> REGINA: Yes, and
now we're having--
now we're starting to see
because everything is amplified
right now because we're at--
>> MONTANA: Well, I'll say.
>> REGINA: We're at
the time of choosing,
really at a critical
time of choosing.
>> MONTANA: Absolutely, Regina.
>> REGINA: And so now a lot
of people are choosing to take
their own lives.
>> MONTANA: Yeah.
>> REGINA: They're saying,
this is so painful here.
I can't do it anymore,
and I want to leave.
I interview a lot of mediums,
and they say repeatedly,
most people say, geez,
why did I do that?
If I could have just had a
word with someone beforehand,
something to give
me a little hope.
There's so much to be
gained and learned here
if we can hang in the game.
So let's talk about this.
Did you ever feel like
that, like you just
didn't want to be here anymore?
I mean--
>> MONTANA: Good question.
Yes and no.
I think the hard part
was looking at how
screwed up everything is.
And where's the way
back from the precipice?
And for the longest
time, it was like, well,
I'm going to be a
spiritual light,
and I'm going to
help fix the planet.
And I finally gotten that
I can't fix what's broken,
and what's broken--
it's kind of like--
it's not kind of, it's totally
like, there's two paths.
There's the path where
you embrace life and align
with what is life giving and
life nurturing and sustaining--
healthy things to eat,
pharmaceuticals not to take,
certain--
you have to follow that
inner compass of what
is going to sustain
life and uplift
and make you more whole
and grounded and loving
and to not go the synthetic path
of avarice control, competition,
conflict.
It's the program.
You're either going to
buy the old program, which
is coming from society, which
is coming from religion, which
is coming from spirituality.
All those programs,
you're either
going to go that and
buy the external,
or you're going to go within.
And you're going to start
to learn to trust that.
And boy, is that a
journey to learn,
to start to trust yourself.
>> REGINA: And it takes time.
We're too impatient.
We want all the answers now.
>> MONTANA: Yeah.
>> REGINA: But one thing I just
heard you say that makes total
sense--
it is a life of--
we've been trained
to be consumers of everything.
We consume, take in, take in,
take in, instead of generators.
And when we start
flipping that switch
to thinking, what can I go
buy? what can I consume today?
and start thinking, What
can I generate today?
Is there something I can do?
Is there something I can give?
Even if you're just in an
interaction in the grocery
store, can you give a little
bit of your self and your heart
to that person
behind the register?
That begins a generative
life, those simple steps.
>> MONTANA: Yeah.
>> REGINA: And so--
>> MONTANA: That's a really--
I like that, generative life.
>> REGINA: Mm-hmm.
And I mean, it was
really interesting.
Years ago, I was in
some kind of cult thing.
I don't know.
It was eight days.
Someone talked me into it.
I was going through
a patch in life.
And she said, oh, you've
got to go do this thing.
And I don't remember what--
Wellspring?
I don't know.
And so it's like
these boot camps,
they put you in your
deprivation and 12 hours a day,
and then they run you through
all these really intense
exercises.
But I remember one
that was spot on,
and it's you-- there were
17 people in our group.
You, all lined up.
And then one of the
people in the group
would go down and look in
your eyes really deeply
and say, giver or taker?
>> MONTANA: Oh.
>> REGINA: I mean, it
gives you the chills--
>> MONTANA: It does.
>> REGINA: --to think about it.
Now, if we start
looking around--
I got chills.
I got chills--
>> MONTANA: Yeah, I do, too.
>> REGINA: Giver or taker?
And what a vulnerable place that
put people in because people
are just-- you're bound
to tell your truth.
>> MONTANA: Yeah.
>> REGINA: And there were
certain people there, taker,
taker, taker.
And they were just
devastated that they
were perceived as a taker.
But their energy was
taken from the group.
>> MONTANA: Yeah.
>> REGINA: So how do we start
identifying that in our own
lives and in each other and in
ourselves and reversing that
then?
You don't want to be a taker.
We all want-- we're
just going to take.
We're going to
take a little bit.
As long as you're generating and
giving something back to life,
that's OK.
>> MONTANA: Well, I mean,
what a great question.
And I think part
of that is, if I'm
in constant consumption
mode, again,
reaching outside of myself,
>> REGINA: Devouring.
>> MONTANA: Devouring, is--
again, that's coming from
this inner belief, assumption
that I am less than and
that I'm not enough.
It's just--
>> REGINA: You haven't
filled the void yet.
>> MONTANA: You haven't
And I mean, my
God, it's epidemic
in every region of our lives.
>> REGINA: It is.
>> MONTANA: And
to start to come--
I think you've got
to recognize first
where we're at, which is
at this depleted state
that we have been influenced
to create in ourselves--
>> REGINA: Oh, it's worse
now with AI and algorithms.
>> MONTANA: Oh.
>> REGINA: Now we're really
going down the rabbit hole.
We all know this.
Now we've got to be very,
very careful and discerning.
>> MONTANA: So to
start to build back up,
and discernment is
absolutely the key.
And if I'm out of
my body all the time
trying to find
answers elsewhere--
>> REGINA: Well, who's here?
>> MONTANA: --then, who's here?
The beauty about the body
is that it never lies.
The body is pure life.
>> REGINA: It is.
>> MONTANA: It contains
all information.
And so that, everybody in the
world has had the intuitive hit.
Don't turn right, like you
usually drive down there.
Turn left for some reason.
OK, well my body, my
quantum field of my body
is reading the quantum field
of the energy of down the road,
there's a board
with a nail in it.
And I'm going to
run over it, and I'm
going to get a flat tire.
My knowingness doesn't
know there's a nail there,
but something says, turn left.
And I turn left.
But we got to be quiet
enough to hear that,
and we have to be trusting
enough to trust it.
And that is the process.
That's the journey
I'm on since COVID
and since I opened the door to
look at the dark and the light
and the gray and all the
areas to see what's going on.
>> REGINA: It's a beautiful
and worthy journey.
And I know you, so I
know where it's taken you
to this beautiful opening
and acceptance of self,
which is where everyone needs
to ultimately find themselves.
And what you said is true.
HeartMath, the whole HeartMath--
I had the privilege one time of
being in a session where there
was a brain state technology.
Someone had electrodes
on their brain,
and then they had
HeartMath device.
And electrodes on
the heart region,
and then they were
exposed to stimuli
to see what responds first.
The heart responds
and the stomach
responds before the brain.
>> MONTANA: Yeah.
>> REGINA: So imagine--
>> MONTANA: The
brain is clueless.
[LAUGHS]
>> REGINA: Yeah.
So let's talk about what that
feels like when you're-- say you
want to know something, and
you're going to get quiet.
And let's talk about using
the body in this way,
because that's really
what you're doing now.
It's--
>> MONTANA: It is
what I'm doing now.
It's the exact flip opposite.
Don't you know the--
I always said, in the end times,
this is the black will be white,
and white will be black.
The truth will be a lie.
Everything is inverted.
>> REGINA: That's where we are.
>> MONTANA: Everything
is inverted.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> MONTANA: I was taught for 35,
40 years to go out of my body
because that's where
the answers lay.
Now I'm getting in my body
[CHUCKLES] and using the life.
I mean, this is the
nexus of everything.
And so all the answers
are right here.
So yes, it is a process of
learning to just be quiet.
I go sit out in the yard.
I just go sit under a tree.
I literally take-- Regina, I
take assiduously half an hour
a day.
I take my shoes off.
I shut my phone off, and
I leave it in the house.
And I go sit under a tree
and just sit with nature.
And I commune with
the life force itself.
My nature is nature.
>> REGINA: And in the end,
every great sage and prophet,
that all comes back to that.
>> MONTANA: It all comes
back to the utter simplicity
of what's already
in us and around us.
>> REGINA: And if you
want to know something,
just learn how to be quiet,
and learn how to ask.
It'll come.
It'll be right there.
You'll know.
And if you don't get
it by way of pictures,
voices, and so forth,
does it matter,
because your body
will say, that is--
>> MONTANA: That
doesn't feel right.
>> REGINA: I've
got a stomach ache.
We're not going--
>> MONTANA: That
doesn't feel right.
I recently had a job,
a career, real career,
what looked like a
huge opportunity.
It was like everything
that my old spiritual ego
wanted, wrapped up in a bow.
And I got so sick.
And my body was just like--
I started getting
migraine precursors.
It was just like, oh, my
body was just like, no,
do not go there.
And I was like, oh OK, that's
the opportunity of a lifetime,
not.
And I didn't do it.
It was like, well,
how simple is that?
Wow.
OK.
And it is a process.
Like everybody want
answers instantaneously.
I want certainty.
Somebody asked me
the other day, what
is your definition of heaven?
I thought about it for a
second, and I was like,
>> REGINA: You didn't.
>> MONTANA: Certainty.
>> REGINA: Yeah, you did.
That's my idea of
heaven, is to know,
not from some cluttered
mental state that says,
I've got the right factoids,
and so, yes, I know this,
but that I have the ease and the
grace and the peace in my being,
in my body to go, ah, I know
that is not something for me.
Ah, I know I want to go do that.
>> REGINA: Yes, an
organic certainty,
not a mental certainty.
>> MONTANA: Exactly.
>> REGINA: Big difference.
>> MONTANA: Big, huge, huge.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> MONTANA: That whole program
is to take us away from
ourselves, take us
away from nature.
If you look-- if you just
look at the overview of life,
again, whether it's social,
religious, or spiritual,
so much of it is about
taking us out of nature,
taking us out of our bodies.
And it's like, wow.
So it's been a shocker to
realize that, well, the answer
was here all the time.
>> REGINA: Yeah, it
I just have to sit with
my feet in the dirt.
>> MONTANA: Really.
>> REGINA: So we're
talking about mind.
We're speaking about mind
almost like it's a bad thing.
But the reality is
it's not a bad thing.
>> MONTANA: No, it's a tool.
>> REGINA: It is a subtle aspect
of ourselves that is here for us
to utilize, but
it's a powerful one.
And through repetition,
we, the real we,
get to choose the
kind of thoughts
we want to have that will
end up being and reflecting
as the quality of
the life around us
and the decisions that we make.
So we're not saying mind is bad.
This is an interesting,
all these subtle bodies
around the real us.
And what I like
to do sometimes--
I used to lead these
meditations for years.
And one of the
things I would do is
when people were like,
your mind is telling you
one thing, your
emotions are over here,
is have them almost
like a magnetic rod.
Allow all the subtle bodies
to just magnetically be
drawn in to the physical
body with the magnetic rod
down the middle so
they're all cooperating.
And if one of them
starts being disruptive,
uh-uh, shh, no, bring it back in
with the mind or the emotions.
If, really, more carnal stuff
is firing, no, just stop.
>> MONTANA: It's all OK.
>> REGINA: Just
bring it right here,
and let's start cooperating
and see what really needs to be
addressed.
>> MONTANA: And I don't
have to shut anything up.
>> REGINA: No, you don't.
>> MONTANA: Here's the--
boy.
The less process, the
less formula, the better.
It's like, OK, so my mind is
going 1,000 miles an hour.
I am still in nature,
aligning with the Earth.
I'm sitting on-- my
butt's on the ground,
so I'm still aligned.
This is my-- this is
my conscious place
right here, right now.
I don't have to
convince some higher
self that I need to do
something to be aligned with--
>> REGINA: It's already here.
>> MONTANA: It's already here.
And so if my mind is
going 1,000 miles an hour,
if my stomach is rumbling, if
my emotions are a little over
a situation, it's all OK.
>> REGINA: It's OK.
>> MONTANA: Those are
clouds passing by.
Big deal.
>> REGINA: Bring it on in.
Embrace it all.
>> MONTANA: Yeah.
>> REGINA: And one of the things
you had in your book that I
wrote down here-- and
I have to share it just
because it's so unconscionable.
[LAUGHTER]
And it was-- this was a "New
Yorker" magazine cartoon.
>> MONTANA: Oh, God.
[LAUGHTER]
>> REGINA: I loved it because
this is actually very truthful.
This is what humanity
is up against,
as opposed to the message, the
beautiful message you're giving.
So the CEO is addressing the
shareholders in a meeting.
It said, "So while the end of
the world scenario will be rife
with unimaginable horrors, we
believe the pre-end period to be
filled with unprecedented
opportunities for profit."
[LAUGHTER]
And you know what?
That's here.
Even the New Age movement,
religions, everything
has been bent against us now.
Even the whole
notion of conspiracy,
conspiracy communities have
been bent against our--
settling into this
beautiful place of knowing.
They're now becoming
distractions.
So I feel, you're right on.
You're right on, Cate.
I couldn't agree with
you more, that it's
time to say, just shut up, and
go inside and feel what's true.
Any final thoughts?
Because believe it or
not, we're out of time.
>> MONTANA: Holy moly.
>> REGINA: Yeah, it flew.
>> MONTANA: Yeah.
I wrote an article
in my Substack column
recently about
leaving storyland.
It's this endless-- the
mind is a beautiful place.
Again, I'm not knocking it.
And there's so much fascination.
>> REGINA: Wonder.
>> MONTANA: But look at the--
what an amazing creation
we're involved in.
And so just to
keep the open mind,
to keep the questioning
mind, to keep the heart
open, to know that
this place is--
there's nothing I have
to be safe against when
I am fully present and
in my love and in my body
and aligned with life.
There's nothing
that can penetrate.
There's nothing that
can knock me off course.
And that's that steadfast
place that's so simple.
Even though the mind's
going 1,000 miles an hour,
the emotions, and the
mortgage is due, and eh-eh,
all that's going on.
But there's this
magnetic wholeness
that is just a presence that
is accountable and trustworthy.
And it's brilliant.
>> REGINA: You're
embodying your true you.
>> MONTANA: Yeah.
You can't become
what you already are.
>> REGINA: Exactly.
>> MONTANA: We are
beings of love.
>> REGINA: Yes.
And ourselves are
filled with light.
>> MONTANA: Yes.
>> REGINA: Cate this has been my
most fun conversation with you
yet.
Thank you--
>> MONTANA: I know.
It keeps getting better.
>> REGINA: It does.
And thank you so much for
being the brave one that
goes out there and is punching
all the demons to find
your way back to you.
>> MONTANA: Takes
one to know one.
[LAUGHTER]
Thanks, Regina.
>> REGINA: Thank you, Cate.
For more information on Cate
and her ongoing revelations,
you can go to
cmontana.substack.com.
You can also find all her
books at major booksellers.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on "Open Minds."
[THEME MUSIC]